---
title: "Be Happy - Annual Letter 2022"
date: 2022-12-20T15:00:47+01:00
---

Hi. What’s up? How’s it going? Are you happy? What a year… huh? Honestly, through ups and downs, for me it was a banger. A lot of soul searching. I found out things about myself I didn’t know. Some of them I liked and some I didn’t. I’m trying to change. I admitted it, I’m not a very easy person to be around. I’m working on it. Cut me some slack (Don’t. Never do. There’s shit to be done, and the sooner I do it, the better). There were episodes this year where I was so proud of myself. Then, there were some, where I wasn’t. But I look at it this way, good episodes are the person I want to be, bad episodes are what I’m trying to leave behind. The more good episodes I have, the better, but no one has only those, and through fixing what we lack currently, we find more things to fix. I’m happy with my progress. I think I’m a better person after the efforts this year. 

I don’t think of myself as a particularly sentimental person, and I can be quite cynical, so you can guess that I don’t really believe in the whole “new year, new me” thing and new year resolutions. So my work just continues. 

Through coming up with the contents of this letter, I had many versions of it. I had stories, messages and many other things in my head, that I was going to wish you all, but let’s put it this way. Just, be happy. I don’t mean to be delusional, but find your passions. Find what makes you happy, and don’t apologize to anyone for it. As long as it’s something that doesn’t affect other people, there is no reason to apologize. Experiment. Alone and with others. Experience new things. 

Ok… I may have cheated a little. I experienced some old things again. And God damn, it was awesome. I could write for days on how much I love music. I truly love it. It’s incredible. Good music can make me happy, it can help heal me, it can do wonders for me. So that’s my first wish for you. **Reignite the old passions**. We all dreamed as kids. Wake that kid up. I started feeling the music again and I couldn’t be happier about it. 

So, I told you about that friend that is writing his own movie, right? If I didn’t, I have a friend who’s writing his own movie now. I’m so damn proud of him. I love the dude. Anyway, fuck him. This is about me. Throughout conversations I discovered I also have a love for movies. They’re fascinating. They’re another form of art that really resonates with me on another level. I love the whole package. A good story. Good philosophy. All the emotions it can make you feel. I love going to the movies. I always like going to the cinema, but this year, I discovered how much I actually love movies. So, let’s make that another wish for you. **Find other things you're passionate about**. Talk to your friends. You’re not friends for no reason. Something is connecting you. Figure out, maybe, one of their passions is just something you haven’t experienced to the full extent yet. Try it out. Worst case scenario, you’ll experience something new.

Third and final story. A couple of days back, a company I work for had a party. Now.. I would define myself as a basement dweller. I’m that guy that sees a party and runs the other way. But, for some reason, the people I work with make me really comfortable. Weirdest part is, I barely know any of them. Hell, I’ve worked with them for a little over a year, I’m just getting a hang of most of their names (There are 200 people there, I’m not in the wrong here). But, most of the ones I hang around at work are awesome. Some of them even read this blog. Thanks, by the way. Well.. At the party, I DANCED. I KNOW RIGHT. Me dancing. It’s exactly how you imagine it. It’s like watching baboons have sex. There is absolutely nothing cool, appealing or sexy about it. I look like someone brought a Christmas tree to life and now it’s just trying to figure out how to walk. That’s how I look when I dance. But for me, dancing in a public place with a lot of people was a huge thing. It was a huge milestone. I was scared shitless of doing it. And I give myself bonus points because I was stone cold sober. It was so uncomfortable to start. Turns out. Not bad at all. It’s fun. And as one of my friends from work said, “It’s not a competition.”. I believe that uncomfortable situations bring evolution to your personality. Most people you know are stale, boring and annoying, because they don’t leave their comfort zone even if there’s a natural catastrophe in that zone. And that’s the third message. **Do things you’re afraid of doing. Do things that you’re uncomfortable doing**. 
Of course, if you’re still uncomfortable after you try, fuck it, it’s not for you. But you’ll never know, unless you try. 

Don’t get me wrong, I’m not over my “public dancing” anxiety yet, but it’s a step forward. As I said, it’s the person I want to be, not the person I am at this moment. And that’s the final message. **Cut yourself some slack, you’re doing ok**. I know I said not to cut me any slack, but as long as you’re making progress, you’re doing good. Some progress is hard to make. Something that seems normal to you may be a huge hill to cross for other people. And vice versa. So as long as you’re doing something to be better, to do better, you’re doing good. Don’t stress too much about it.

Happy holidays everyone! I hope we all have a good 2023. Cheers!

Sincerely yours,

Damad Butkovic
